# Register conventions
* `$zero` (`$r0`) - hardware zero i.e. always read as zero. It can also be used as a destination register, however, the result is lost.
* `$AT` (`$r1`) - the register is reserved for the assembler or linker and is used as a temporary register e.g. for expansions of pseudo instructions.
* `$t0-$t3,$t4-$t5,$t8-$t9` (`$r12-$r15,$r2-$r3,$r24-$r25`) - by convention, these registers can be used by subroutines without preserving their contents. However, the registers must be saved before invoking subroutines as there is no guarantee that any of the registers are not destroyed by a subroutine call. The missing `$t6-$t7` in the naming convention is intentional to keep `$t8-$t9` tied to registers `$r24-$r25` for minimal porting effort of MIPS code to nanoMIPS as these registers are likely to be used in many places.
* `$a0-$a7` (`$r4-$r11`) - used to pass up to 8 arguments to a subroutine. The first two argument registers are for dual-purpose: they are used to pass argument and used as return registers. Unused argument registers can be used as temporaries. If the return value is too large to fit into two registers, the compiler will pass a pointer as an invisible first argument.
* `$s0-$s7` (`$r16-$r23`) - by convention, these registers must be saved and restored by subroutines before using these registers i.e. the contents at the exit must be the same as on the entry to a subroutine.
* `$k0-$k1` (`$r26-$r27`) - reserved by the OS/exception handler. These are used as temporaries with original values not restored.
* `$gp` (`$r28`) - used as global pointer. Typically can be used in embedded applications to provide efficient access to C static/extern data. The compiler `-G<N>` flag where N is the size of data is considered "small" can be used to place such data in the "small data section" that can be accessed via this pointer. The default size is 8 bytes. The addressable range for this area is 2MiB (note: the classic MIPS could only access 64KiB range of memory).
* `$sp` (`$r29`) - used as stack pointer.  It takes explicit instructions to raise and lower the stack pointer, so MIPS code usually adjusts the stack only on subroutine entry and exit; and it is the responsibility of the subroutine being called to do this. `$sp` is normally adjusted, on entry, to the lowest point that the stack will need to reach at any point in the subroutine. It must maintain quadword alignment (16-bytes) and grow toward the lower addresses.
* `$fp` (`$r30`) - used a frame pointer to keep track of the stack if it's impossible to determine the stack adjustment at the compile time e.g. when the amount is determined at run-time; this may happen for things like variable sized arrays placed on the stack (allowed in C99 standard). The frame pointer, if needed, is initialized to a constant position relative to the function's stack frame with the bias of 4096 bytes. The bias causes `$fp` to point 4096 bytes below the function's top of the current stack frame (toward the lower addresses). If the `$fp` is not used then it can be used as a saved temporary.
* `$ra` (`$r31`) - return address. The register holds the address to which control should be returned at the end of a subroutine. The register must be saved if a subroutine calls another subroutine and restored before the exit.
 
Note that the use of named registers is now mandatory which is a deviation from the original MIPS. The format `$N` where `N` is the register number has been deprecated. Alternatively, `$rN` can be used as a substitute for the old format and the number directly maps to the register number.
