<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_msd_s3q_fcb">
 <title>Integration with the GCC-based toolchain</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>Small C library support in GCC is provided via new multi-lib configurations. Pre-built
   small/tiny libraries variants are provided with the toolchain for select multi-lib combinations.
  </p>
  <p>The Small C library is provided within the toolchain as a set of three static library files,
   for both small and tiny variants. At the least, the toolchain installation will contain the files
   mentioned below:</p>
  <table id="table_o2k_t3q_fcb">
   <title>Essential files in small C library</title>
   <tgroup cols="3">
    <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
    <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
    <colspec colnum="3" colname="col3"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry><b>File</b></entry>
      <entry><b>Location in toolchain-root</b></entry>
      <entry><b>Description</b></entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>libc.a</codeph></entry>
      <entry><codeph>nanomips-elf/lib/nanomips-r6-soft-small/lib</codeph></entry>
      <entry>ISO conforming size optimized string, memory, IO, time and other functions.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>libm.a</codeph></entry>
      <entry><codeph>nanomips-elf/lib/nanomips-r6-soft-small/lib</codeph></entry>
      <entry>ISO conforming size optimized Math functions.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>libg.a</codeph></entry>
      <entry><codeph>nanomips-elf/lib/nanomips-r6-soft-small/lib</codeph></entry>
      <entry>ISO conforming size optimized string, memory, IO, time and other functions, compiled
       with debugging enabled</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>libc.a</codeph></entry>
      <entry><codeph>nanomips-elf/lib/nanomips-r6-soft-tiny/lib</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Non-conforming size optimized string, memory, IO, time and other functions</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>libm.a</codeph></entry>
      <entry><codeph>nanomips-elf/lib/nanomips-r6-soft-tiny</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Non-conforming size optimized Math functions.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>libg.a</codeph></entry>
      <entry><codeph>nanomips-elf/lib/nanomips-r6-soft-tiny</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Non-conforming size optimized string, memory, IO, time and other functions, compiled
       with debugging enabled</entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
  <p>Based on the actual combinations of multilib that the toolchain is built with, there may be
   multiple versions of these libraries – each having been compiled using a unique combination of
   compiler options and located within a directory structure determined by the corresponding
   multi-lib configuration. The libraries listed above correspond to a little-endian, soft-float build
   for the nanoMIPS32R6 architecture.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
