<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qrg_fvv_2cb">
 <title>Miscellaneous system support</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>The following generic MIPS system support functions are defined in include file
    <codeph>mips/cpu.h</codeph>.</p>
  <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_fqf_y1x_2cb">
   <title>Generic system support functions </title>
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry>Function</entry>
      <entry>Description</entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>void mips_wbflush (void)</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Drain the write buffer. All stores issued prior to the call are guaranteed to have been
       written to memory or device by the time the function returns. It should be called between
       writing to device control registers and reading their status/data registers. On some CPUs it
       is also necessary to call it between successive writes to the same register, to prevent
       word-gathering write-buffers from swallowing some of the writes.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>void _mips_sync (void)</codeph></entry>
      <entry>On modern MIPS-Based CPUs this generates a sync instruction. This is almost but not
       quite the same as mips_wbflush() - it is a memory <i>barrier</i> which guarantees that all
       memory accesses preceding this instruction will be completed before any accesses which follow
       this instruction. It says nothing though about external state, such as interrupts - and on
       simpler CPUs with blocking loads it may be interpreted as a no-op.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>uint8_t mips_get_byte (void *addr, int
       *err)</codeph><lines><codeph>uint16_t mips_get_half (void *addr, int *err)</codeph></lines><lines><codeph>uint32_t mips_get_word
        (void *addr, int *err)</codeph></lines><lines><codeph>uint64_t mips_get_dword (void *addr, int *err)</codeph></lines></entry>
      <entry>Return the byte, halfword, word, or dword at address addr. If the address is invalid,
       then *err may be set to a non-zero value; otherwise *err is unchanged. You can use these
       functions when accessing arbitrary memory locations outside of your program, to ensure that
       peculiarities of your system or CPU address map are handled correctly.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry/>
      <entry>Store a byte, halfword, word, or dword val to arbitrary address addr. If the address is
       invalid, then a non-zero value may be returned, otherwise they return zero.</entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
 </conbody>
</concept>
