<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_qk5_fg3_1cb">
 <title>Libraries and Header Files</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>The <ph keyref="var_nanotoolchain"/> provides pre-compiled C runtime and Math libraries for a
   range of different nanoMIPS ISA options; the version you need is picked automatically according to
   the flags you give the compiler - see <xref href="c_pg_supported_configurations.dita"/>. The C
   libraries and associated header files follow the ISO C Standard (ISO 9899:1990[1992]), also known
   as ISO C90, and formerly the ANSI X3J11 committee’s standard for the C programming language
   (called the ANSI C standard in this manual). This has been validated using the Plum Hall
   Validation Suite.</p>
  <p>The following additional libraries are provided for bare-metal environments. These libraries
   are available as both sources and binary components:</p>
  <ul id="ul_ryq_gg3_1cb">
   <li>Small C Library: size optimized standard C and Math libraries conforming to the ISO C
    standard (C99). <p>SmallCLib has been specially tuned for embedded environment, where code size
     and run-time memory requirements are critical. SmallCLib aims to provide as much functionality
     as possible in the smallest amount of space. It is implemented in C with selective use of
     extended assembly and comes in two flavours: </p></li>
    <li>A small flavour which is ISO C Standard (ISO 9899:1999) compliant and functionally
     identical to Newlib 2.5. Space saving is achieved by refactoring code to eliminate redundancy,
     occasionally at the expense of speed. In versions tuned for the latest nanoMIPS ISA, new
     instructions are used aggressively, thereby reducing code size and in some cases improving
     performance. This variant is validated using the Plum Hall Validation suite.</li>
    <li>A tiny flavour which diverges from both the ISO standard and Newlib behaviour in select
     areas. This variant is aggressively optimized for code size, in lieu of performance and
     features are reduced to the minimum set expected of a space-contrained embedded platform.</li>
  </ul>
  <p>Both flavours are available as multiple pre-built configurations, where a small footprint
   library is deemed to be most relevant. However, the libraries can be built for any configuration
   by following the instructions provided with the SmallClib source release package. Small &amp; Tiny C
   libraries share a common source base, derived from Newlib. </p>
  <table id="table_tyq_gg3_1cb">
   <title>Feature comparison between libraries</title>
   <tgroup cols="4">
    <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
    <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
    <colspec colnum="3" colname="col3"/>
    <colspec colnum="4" colname="col4"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry/>
      <entry><b>Newlib</b></entry>
      <entry><b>SmallClib</b></entry>
      <entry><b>TinyClib</b></entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry>Complex arithmetic</entry>
      <entry>Yes</entry>
      <entry>No</entry>
      <entry>No</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>Character handling and localization</entry>
      <entry>Full locale support</entry>
      <entry>Full locale support</entry>
      <entry>Only 7-bit ASCII (default C) locale support</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>Math</entry>
      <entry>
       <p>IEEE 754 compliant.</p>
       <p>ISO C99 compliant.</p>
       <p>Additional error handling and exceptions not required by standards.</p>
       <p>Key string handling functions are tuned using hand-coded MIPS assembly.</p>
      </entry>
      <entry>
       <p>IEEE 754 compliant.</p>
       <p>ISO C99 compliant.</p>
       <p>Provides minimum error handling and exceptions as per standards.</p>
       <p>Tuned throughout using hand-coded MIPS assembly.</p>
      </entry>
      <entry>
       <p>No support for denormals, infinity or NaN arguments.</p>
       <p>Minimum error handling required subject to above exclusions. Correct exceptions may not be
        generated.</p>
       <p>Tuned throughout using hand-coded MIPS assembly.</p>
      </entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry>Re-entrancy</entry>
      <entry>Yes</entry>
      <entry>Not supported</entry>
      <entry>Not supported</entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
 </conbody>
</concept>
