<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cjd_h3q_fcb">
 <title>Non-conforming</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>This version, referred to as the tiny-variant, omits some ISO features in order to achieve
   higher code density as compared to the compliant version. Following sections describe differences
   between ISO conforming and non-conforming versions.</p>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>File and standard IO</dt>
    <dd>The file and standard IO functions provided by this version operate only on standard streams
     (stdin, stdout and stderr). All the supported streams are un-buffered.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Locales</dt>
    <dd>Locale support in this version is limited to UTF-8 encoding only, which allows direct code
     paths and better performance. The only locale supported by this version is the default C.UTF-8
     locale.</dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Floating point</dt>
    <dd>The floating point support in this version differs from IEEE 754 standard in the following
      ways,<ul id="ul_bwj_n3q_fcb">
      <li>NaN, INF and de-normal input values are not handled. Operations involving such inputs
       generate unpredictable results. </li>
      <li>Sign of zero is ignored</li>
      <li>No IEEE exceptions are flagged</li>
     </ul></dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Reentrancy</dt>
    <dd>This version of SmallCLib does not support reentrancy.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
