<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_dbv_kpb_fcb">
 <title>Extended Context</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>The basic exception handler saves only the general purpose CPU registers and some control
   registers when an exception occurs. For most exception handlers this is sufficient. In some cases
   it may be necessary or desirable to save and restore the contents of the floating point and MSA
   registers. Systems using XPA require additional support as the BadVAddr register (CP0 Register 8,
   Select 0) is wider than the provided exception hander expects.</p>
  <p>The following table describes <codeph>struct linkctx</codeph> which is common to all extended
   context structures:</p>
  <table id="table_bn5_lpb_fcb">
   <title>linkctx structure</title>
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
    <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry><b>Field</b></entry>
      <entry><b>Description</b></entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>reg_t id</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Records the type of extended context saved. Currently used types are described
       below.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>struct linkctx * next</codeph></entry>
      <entry>The next context field or NULL if the last in the chain.</entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
  <p>The values currently supported for the id field are defined in
    <codeph>$MIPS_ELF_ROOT/include/mips/hal.h </codeph>and share the common prefix LINKCTX_TYPE_.
   For reference:</p>
  <table id="table_cn5_lpb_fcb">
   <title>reg_t id field values</title>
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
    <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry><b>Context type</b></entry>
      <entry><b>Description</b></entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>LINKCTX_TYPE_MSA</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Context for MSA.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>LINKCTX_TYPE_FMSA</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Context for MSA with the floating point condition and status register.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>LINKCTX_TYPE_FP32</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Context for 32-bit floating point.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>LINKCTX_TYPE_FP64</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Context for 64-bit floating point.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>LINKCTX_TYPE_XPA</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Context for XPA. </entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
  <p>To help manage multiple extended contexts, <codeph>struct gpctx</codeph> has a link field
   allowing the various contexts to be linked together. Additionally the following function is
   provided to simplify linking contexts together:</p>
  <table id="table_dn5_lpb_fcb">
   <title>Linking context function</title>
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
    <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry><b>Function prototype</b></entry>
      <entry><b>Description</b></entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>void _linkctx_append (struct gpctx *gp, struct linkctx *new)</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Appends new onto the end of the gp’s list of context structures. </entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
  <p>The following functions are provided for saving and restoring these register sets.</p>
  <table id="table_en5_lpb_fcb">
   <title>Save and restore functions</title>
   <tgroup cols="2">
    <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
    <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
    <thead>
     <row>
      <entry><b>Function prototype</b></entry>
      <entry><b>Description</b></entry>
     </row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>reg_t _xpa_save (struct xpactx *ptr)</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Saves the XPA related context. Note: unlike the other extend context functions, no
       corresponding _xpa_load is provided as BadVAddr is a read-only register.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>reg_t _fpctx_save (struct fpctx *ptr)</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Saves the floating point context to ptr. </entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>reg_t _fpctx_load (struct fpctx *ptr)</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Restores the floating point context from ptr.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>reg_t _msactx_save (struct msactx *ptr)</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Saves the MSA context to ptr. </entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>reg_t _msactx_load (struct msactx *ptr)</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Restores the MSA context from ptr.</entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>reg_t _dspctx_save (struct dspctx *ptr)</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Saves the DSP context to ptr. </entry>
     </row>
     <row>
      <entry><codeph>reg_t _dspctx_load (struct dspctx *ptr)</codeph></entry>
      <entry>Restores the DSP context from ptr.</entry>
     </row>
    </tbody>
   </tgroup>
  </table>
  <p>The various save functions return the address of the context when no error occurs or zero if an
   error occurs. The load functions return the address given to them when the state is reloaded
   successfully or zero if an error occurs.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
